dm: update dm-precheck.md (#7907)
pingcap/docs: dm/dm-precheck.md

---
title: Migration Task Precheck
summary: Learn the precheck that DM performs when a migration task is started.
aliases: ['/docs/tidb-data-migration/dev/precheck/']
---

# Migration Task Precheck

> This document introduces the DM precheck feature, which detects errors in the upstream MySQL instance configurations before the migration task starts.

Author: ```suggestion
Before using DM to migrate data from upstream to downstream, a precheck helps detect errors in the upstream instance configurations and ensures that the migration goes smoothly. This document introduces the DM precheck feature, including its usage scenario, check items, and arguments.
```

> This document introduces the DM precheck feature, which detects errors in the upstream MySQL instance configurations before the migration task is executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document introduces the DM precheck feature, which detects errors in the upstream MySQL instance configurations before the migration task start.
```

## Usage scenario

> To run the data migration task smoothly, when a migration task is started, DM triggers the precheck automatically and returns the check results. Only after the precheck passes, does DM start executing the migration.

Author: ```suggestion
To run a data migration task smoothly, DM triggers a precheck automatically on the start of the task and returns the check results. DM starts the migration only after the precheck passes.
```

> To run the data migration task smoothly, when a migration task is started, DM triggers the precheck automatically and returns the check results. Only after the precheck passes, does DM start executing the migration.

Author: 是的，只是为了不理解为是 DM 定期自己自动触发的，所以还是需要说下触发的条件

To trigger a precheck manually, run the `check-task` command.

For example:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```bash
tiup dmctl check-task ./task.yaml
```

## Checking items

After a precheck is triggered for a task, DM checks the corresponding items according to your migration mode configuration.

This section lists all the precheck items.

> **Note:**
>

> > For the checking items that must be passed in the precheck, "(required)" is indicated before the checking item names in this document.
> >
> > + For a required checking item, if the corresponding check does not pass, DM returns an error after the check and does not proceed with the migration task. In this case, modify the configurations according to the error message and retry the task after meeting the precheck requirements.
> > + For a non-required checking item, if the corresponding check does not pass, DM returns a warning after the check. If the check result has no errors but only warnings, DM automatically starts executing the migration task.

Author: ```suggestion
>  In this document, check items that must be passed are labeled "(mandatory)".  

> - If a mandatory check item does not pass, DM returns an error after the check and does not proceed with the migration task. In this case, modify the configurations according to the error message and retry the task after meeting the precheck requirements.
>
> - If a non-mandatory check item does not pass, DM returns a warning after the check. DM automatically starts a migration task if the check result contains only warnings but no errors.
```

### Common checking items

Regardless of which migration mode you choose, the precheck always includes the following common checking items:

- Database version

    - MySQL version > 5.5
    - MariaDB version >= 10.1.2

    > **Warning:**
    >
    > - Migrating data from MySQL 8.0 to TiDB using DM is an experimental feature (introduced since DM v2.0). It is NOT recommended that you use it in a production environment.
    > - Migrating data from MariaDB to TiDB using DM is an experimental feature. It is NOT recommended that you use it in a production environment.

- Compatibility of the upstream MySQL table schema

>     - Check whether the upstream tables have foreign keys. TiDB does not support foreign keys and returns a warning if the upstream tables have foreign keys.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Check whether the upstream tables have foreign keys, which are not supported by TiDB. A warning is returned if a foreign key is found in the precheck.
```

>     - (Required) Check whether there are compatibility differences in character sets. For more information, see [TiDB Supported Character Sets](/character-set-and-collation.md).
>     - Check whether the upstream tables have a primary key or unique key restrictions (introduced from v1.0.7)

Author: ```suggestion
    - (Mandatory) Check whether there are compatibility differences in character sets. For more information, see [TiDB Supported Character Sets](/character-set-and-collation.md).
    - (Mandatory) Check whether the upstream tables have primary key constraints or unique key constraints (introduced from v1.0.7)
```

### Full data migration checking items

For the full data migration mode (`task-mode: full`), in addition to the [common checking items](#common-checking-items), the precheck also includes the following checking items:

> * (Required) dump permissions of the upstream database

Author: 需要具备上游数据库的 dump 权限

    - Check for the SELECT permission on INFORMATION_SCHEMA and dump tables.
    - If `consistency=flush`, check for the RELOAD permission.
    - If `consistency=flush/lock`, check for the LOCK TABLES permission on the dump tables.

* (Required) Consistency of upstream MySQL multi-instance sharding tables

>     - In the pessimistic mode, check whether the table schemas of all sharded tables are consistent, including the following items:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - In the pessimistic mode, check whether the table schemas of all sharded tables are consistent in the following items:
```

        - Number of columns
        - Column name
        - Column order
        - Column type
        - Primary key
        - Unique index

    - In the optimistic mode, check whether the schemas of all sharded tables meet the [optimistic compatibility](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/blob/master/dm/docs/RFCS/20191209_optimistic_ddl.md#modifying-column-types).

    - If a migration task was started successfully by the `start-task` command, the precheck of this task skips the consistency check.

* Auto-increment primary key in sharded tables

    - If sharded tables have auto-increment primary keys, the precheck returns a warning. If there are conflicts in auto-increment primary keys, see [Handle conflicts of auto-increment primary key](/dm/shard-merge-best-practices.md#Handling-auto-increment-primary-key-conflicts) for solutions.

> ### Incremental data migration checking items

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Check items for incremental data migration 
```

> For the incremental data migration mode (`task-mode: incremental`), in addition to the [common checking items](#common-checking-items), the precheck also includes the following checking items:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the incremental data migration mode (`task-mode: incremental`), in addition to the [common check items](#common-check-items), the precheck also includes the following check items:
```

> * (Required) REPLICATION permission of the upstream database

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* (Mandatory) Upstream database REPLICATION permission 
```

>     - Check for the REPLICATION CLIENT permission.
>     - Check for the REPLICATION SLAVE permission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - REPLICATION CLIENT permission
    - REPLICATION SLAVE permission
```

> * (Required) Database primary-secondary configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* (Mandatory) Database primary-secondary configuration
```

>     - The database ID `server_id` must be configured for the upstream database (GTID is recommended for non-AWS Aurora environments).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - The database ID `server_id` of the upstream database must be specified (GTID is recommended for non-AWS Aurora environments).
```

> * (Required) MySQL binlog configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* (Mandatory) MySQL binlog configuration
```

>     - Check whether binlog is enabled (DM requires binlog to be enabled).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Check whether binlog is enabled (required by DM).
```

    - Check whether `binlog_format=ROW` is configured (DM only supports the migration of binlog in the ROW format).
    - Check whether `binlog_row_image=FULL` is configured (DM only supports `binlog_row_image=FULL`).
    - If `binlog_do_db` or `binlog_ignore_db` is configured, check whether the database tables to be migrated meet the conditions of `binlog_do_db` and `binlog_ignore_db`.

> * (Required) Check if the upstream database is in an [Online-DDL](/dm/feature-online-ddl.md) process (in which the `ghost` table is created but the `rename` phase is not executed yet). If the upstream is in the online-DDL process, the precheck returns errors. In this case, wait until the DDL to complete and retry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* (Mandatory) Check if the upstream database is in an [Online-DDL](/dm/feature-online-ddl.md) process (in which the `ghost` table is created but the `rename` phase is not executed yet). If the upstream is in the online-DDL process, the precheck returns an error. In this case, wait until the DDL to complete and retry.
```

> ### Full and incremental data migration checking items

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Check items for full and incremental data migration
```

> For the full and incremental data migration mode (`task-mode: all`), in addition to the [common checking items](#common-checking-items), the precheck also includes the [full data migration checking items](#full-data-migration-checking-items) and the [incremental data migration checking items](#incremental-data-migration-checking-items).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the full and incremental data migration mode (`task-mode: all`), in addition to the [common check items](#common-check-items), the precheck also includes the [full data migration check items](#full-data-migration-check-items) and the [incremental data migration check items](#incremental-data-migration-check-items).
```

## Configure precheck arguments

> The migration task precheck supports processing in parallel. Even if the number of rows in sharded tables reaches a million level, the check can be completed in minutes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The migration task precheck supports processing in parallel. Even if the number of rows in sharded tables reaches a million level, the precheck can be completed in minutes.
```

> The migration task precheck supports multi-thread processing in parallel. Even if the number of rows in sharded tables reaches a million level, the check can be completed in minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The migration task precheck supports processing in parallel. Even if the number of rows in sharded tables reaches a million level, the check can be completed in minutes.
```

To specify the number of threads for the precheck, you can configure the `threads` argument of the `mydumpers` field in the migration task configuration file.

```yaml
mydumpers:                           # Configuration arguments of the dump processing unit
  global:                            # Configuration name
    threads: 4                       # The number of threads that access the upstream when the dump processing unit performs the precheck and exports data from the upstream database (4 by default)

>     chunk-filesize: 64               # The size of the file generated by the dump processing unit (64 in MB by default)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    chunk-filesize: 64               # The size of the file generated by the dump processing unit (64 MB by default)
```

>     extra-args: "--consistency none" # Other arguments of the dump processing unit. You do not need to manually configure table-list in `extra-args`, because table-list is automatically generated by DM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    extra-args: "--consistency none" # Other arguments of the dump processing unit. You do not need to manually configure table-list in `extra-args`, because it is automatically generated by DM.
```

```

> **Note:**
>

> > The value of `threads` determines the number of physical connections between the upstream database and DM. A too large `threads` value might increase the load of the upstream. Therefore, you need to control the `threads` value carefully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The value of `threads` determines the number of physical connections between the upstream database and DM. An excessively large `threads` value might increase the load of the upstream. Therefore, you need to set `threads` to a proper value.
```

---
title: Migration Task Precheck
summary: Learn the precheck that DM performs before starting a migration task.
aliases: ['/docs/tidb-data-migration/dev/precheck/']
---

# Migration Task Precheck

Before using DM to migrate data from upstream to downstream, a precheck helps detect errors in the upstream database configurations and ensures that the migration goes smoothly. This document introduces the DM precheck feature, including its usage scenario, check items, and arguments.

## Usage scenario

To run a data migration task smoothly, DM triggers a precheck automatically on the start of the task and returns the check results. DM starts the migration only after the precheck passes.

To trigger a precheck manually, run the `check-task` command.

For example:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```bash
tiup dmctl check-task ./task.yaml
```

## Checking items

After a precheck is triggered for a task, DM checks the corresponding items according to your migration mode configuration.

This section lists all the precheck items.

> **Note:**
>

> >  In this document, check items that must be passed are labeled "(mandatory)".  

Author: ```suggestion
>  In this document, check items that must be passed are labeled "(Mandatory)".  
```

### Check items for full and incremental data migration

For the full and incremental data migration mode (`task-mode: all`), in addition to the [common check items](#common-check-items), the precheck also includes the [full data migration check items](#full-data-migration-check-items) and the [incremental data migration check items](#incremental-data-migration-check-items).

## Configure precheck arguments

The migration task precheck supports processing in parallel. Even if the number of rows in sharded tables reaches a million level, the precheck can be completed in minutes.

To specify the number of threads for the precheck, you can configure the `threads` argument of the `mydumpers` field in the migration task configuration file.

```yaml
mydumpers:                           # Configuration arguments of the dump processing unit
  global:                            # Configuration name
    threads: 4                       # The number of threads that access the upstream when the dump processing unit performs the precheck and exports data from the upstream database (4 by default)

>     chunk-filesize: 64               # The size of the file generated by the dump processing unit (64 MB by default)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    chunk-filesize: 64               # The size of the files generated by the dump processing unit (64 MB by default)
```
